---
layout: post
title: "Surviving the 1st Hackathon"
description: "A tale of a survivor...(tongue in cheek)"
category: MakerSquare, Austin Tech, Programming, Web Development
tags: [Javascript, SQL, jQuery, Ruby, Foundation, HTML5, CSS]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<strong><span style="color:red;font-size:30px">Harrowing.</span></strong>That's the word I feel like I should be using to describe the past week or so with the first MakerSquare hackathon having come and gone. At least, that would be based on what I had heard about hackathons. But, sadly for you probably, my description isn't going to lean that way. In fact, far from it. Rather, the words I would use to describe it are <strong><span style="color:red">Exhilirating</span></strong>.<strong><span style="color:red">Exhausting</span></strong>.<strong><span style="color:red">A tinny bit frustrating</span></strong>.<strong><span style="color:red">Reassuring</span></strong>.

I won't lie, prior to the hackathon, I was extremely dubious as to whether or not I could actually bring my backend chops together with my frontend chops(ahem, lack thereof). With a bit of javascript and jQuery, an itsy bit of HTML and stylesheets, and a very smidgen of Sinatra practice in us, I think I can safely say this was a niggling doubt that every one of us in MKS Cohort 6 shared. But if I had the audacity to speak for us all, I would say that, after seeing the presentations for the hackathon projects this morning, every single person's came together much better than they could have ever thought. Ours did for sure.

In fact, before the hackathon, I kind of felt like a hamster on a wheel that some 10-year-old evil mastermind was spinning in the hopes of seeing me fly off. Similarly, a phrase that had been passed around a lot in the weeks right before the hackathon were <em><span>"drinking from the firehouse."</span></em> We were (and still are) being given soooooooo much information that it seemed impossible that I was really retaining any of it, especially in a manner that I could actually use it to build a website from scratch in a few days.

But, YOU GUYS. We did. In fact, we built a website called "Give a Penny, Take a Penny" that I'm really quite proud of. The basic gist is that it's a site allows non-profit organizations to post volunteer opportunities (known as pennies) that volunteers can take (agree to complete essentially). Of course it's not finished yet (can a project you love really ever be finished anyways), but I wasn't embarassed to show it around. Actually, I made both Clay and my mom look at it (and it was just them because they were the only people I saw when I had my computer on me... Stephen and Hayley, you got off easy Saturday night!) Unfortunately, I'm not paying to host it and it's run through Sinatra, so I can't put it on Github pages, so you can't see it unless you have some tech savvy and want to download the <a href="https://github.com/amckemie/GPTP">project</a> and run it locally. But just know that I somehow got HTML and CSS to (finally) comply, got a sweet scroll function to move around on the homepage, had persistence and stored users per their sessions (that's right, volunteers, you can't see an organization's page and vice versa!), displayed errors for log in and sign up, and more. It's cool. And I'm a tech nerd. WHAT.

In order not to ramble on too much about the hackathon, and to get back to my night of Javascript and Active Record studying, I have to mention that we also got paired with our mentors about a week and a half ago, and I got completely and utterly lucky to be paired with Ryan Irelan. He and I met up for the first time last Thursday and not only did he tell me alot about the tech field and made me feel much better about hiring prospects coming out of MKS, but he jumped right into helping me figure out some Sinatra questions (to the point where I think his meter ran out, whoops!) The mentorship program is one of the coolest parts about MakerSquare (and one of the aspects that sets it apart in my opinion), and I am supremely grateful to have been given such an experienced, helpful, and nice guy!

In other news, Bea (my puppy for those of you not in the know) is starting to smell pretty bad and I've forgotten what working out looks like...guess I'm spending too many hours at class/studying (sorry Bea Baby and parents). Time to reintroduce balance into my life (nahhhh, I'll just code for now)
