---
layout: post
title: "Sinatra, CSS, and Algorithms, Oh My!"
description: "The Tale of How Frontend and Backend Programming "
category: MakerSquare, Programming
tags: [Sinatra, CSS, HTML, Ruby, Rails]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<strong><span style="color:red;font-size:30px">WHEW.</span></strong> It's only (ONLY) the middle of week 4 and I've already fallen off the wagon. Not the alcohol one, you lush. The blogging one. Once a bad blogger, always a bad blogger apparently. I thought that when I was setting off on a new adventure/career, getting to blog and keep track of it virtually would be a necessity. Unfortunately, I was wrong. I've found that my former lazy blogging tendancies have persisted. In fact, I've found that my need to do all things programming and MakerSquare-related has won over anything else. Did I use to have a social life? I don't remember. Did I use to run and workout? What's that?

I kid (kind of). In reality, the last two weeks (since I've blogged) have been so incredibly busy that I put off and put off updating this blog. And I had a reminder today about it that made me realize that I have to make time for not only updating this blog, but keeping up with my other, outside of programming, stuff too. (Amy, we ARE doing a doggie date (and any other clouds who want to join too!))

Anyways, since I last blogged about things, I think it was - what - 2 weeks into MakerSquare? Well, things have changed. I thought I was keeping my head above water. I thought I was going to be able to go to class then go lay out at the pool with Clay and Shea (ha, that rhymes (<span style="color:yellow"YEA</span> that's where my mind's at y'all)). I thought that this would be like school was in the past. Well, I was both right and wrong. I am keeping my head above water -- when it comes to Ruby. I am able to go to class then hang out -- if I want to feel more behind. It is like school was in the past -- only more intense. And, to be honest, a lot of it so far is not intense in that I feel like I don't understand what is going on. It's that we have to be learning, practicing, and moving forward in 3+ languages/skills all the time. This week we have a big Ruby project based on databases (a critical skill I know), entities, and persistance. We also have a big design layout due tomorrow (HAH). And we also have an algorithms project in which we need to train a reader, essentially, to read a set of books and then properly categorize other books (Project Gutenberg). They are all fascinating and worthwhile, but it's a lot. I told someone (see, I don't even remember who!) today that my brain has melted from overload and stress.

Ok. In all honesty, though I am seemingly making a big deal of how much we are learning and doing, and how much it seems to be at the moment, I'm reveling in it. I LOVED writing my own mergesort algorithm last week, then turning it into the basic form of an application based on inverions (see - you got a mention Canaan and Ben!) I thoroughly enjoyed making a pig latin translator that we turned into a basic Ruby gem and Sinatra app. And even though I am struggling right now with the tedius and painstaking process that is CSS, I'm believing that someday I'll like that too!

So, besides all the skills we've been learning, we've also had some other MKS (MakerSquare) stuff going on. Mainly a presentation by the career services team and mentorship night. It should come as no surprise that my main goal out of this course (and the main goal of I'd say about all except 2 of us) is to get a job as some sort of programmer/developer. Thus, anything career services has to say or do is pretty damn fascinating and important. And though it was just a first presentation, I will say I was pretty impressed with what the MKS career services team has planned and in place to help us get jobs after we graduate. From resume and social profile reviews/work to technical interview practice and skill honing to the creation of 'Makertunities (as they call it),' which are basically relationships they've built with companies we've expressed interest in or they feel would be a good fit for us, there seems to be a lot of work going on behind the scenes to help us get jobs. Which is immensely appreciated!

Mentorship night is also a part of this, and basically was the time when we got to mingle with past grads and professionals in the industry who are so kind as to volunteer their time to help us both with our coding skills and with our job search throughout our time at MKS. It went on last night, and I have to say, it was really amazing to get to meet some of these guys who've either been successful after MKS or have been programming for a good part of their lives. The insight and advice they had to offer just last night was great. We now get to pick our top 3 mentors and will get one assigned some thereafter (I'm pumped!). The only I will say I was bummed about though is that there weren't any female mentors (at least at the event last night). It would have been nice to meet another woman in this field and get her perspective. However, I am planning on attending some Women Who Code and Austin Rails community meetups, so all hope is not lost!

So that's it! I'm off to write some more Javascript, CSS, and Ruby this week before Clay and I go to Florida to see the lovely Kelsey Heim and Jaime Garcia get married!!!
